docs(recipes): Refreshing Select Partitions (#3498)
cube-js/cube.js: docs/content/Examples-Tutorials-Recipes/Refreshing-select-partitions.md

---
title: Refreshing Select Partitions
permalink: /recipes/refreshing-select-partitions
category: Examples & Tutorials
subCategory: Query acceleration
menuOrder: 6
---

## Use case

We have a dataset with orders and we want to aggregate data while having decent

> performance. Orders have a created time, so we can use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performance. Orders have a creation time, so we can use
```

[partitioning](https://cube.dev/docs/caching/using-pre-aggregations#partitioning)

> by time to optimize pre-aggregations build and refresh time. The problem is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by time to optimize pre-aggregations build and refresh time. The problem is that the
```

> order can change status after a long time. In this case we want to rebuild only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
order's status can change after a long period. In this case, we want to rebuild only
```

partitions associated with this order.

In the recipe below, we'll learn how to use the
[`refreshKey`](https://cube.dev/docs/schema/reference/pre-aggregations#parameters-refresh-key-sql)
together with the
[`FITER_PARAMS`](https://cube.dev/docs/schema/reference/cube#filter-params) for
partition separately.

## Data schema

Let's explore the `Orders` cube data that contains various information about
orders, including number and status:

| id  | number | status     | created_at          | updated_at          |
| --- | ------ | ---------- | ------------------- | ------------------- |
| 1   | 1      | processing | 2021-08-10 14:26:40 | 2021-08-10 14:26:40 |
| 2   | 2      | completed  | 2021-08-20 13:21:38 | 2021-08-22 13:10:38 |
| 3   | 3      | shipped    | 2021-09-01 10:27:38 | 2021-09-02 01:12:38 |
| 4   | 4      | completed  | 2021-09-20 10:27:38 | 2021-09-20 10:27:38 |

> In our case, each order has `created_at` and `update_at` properties. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our case, each order has `created_at` and `updated_at` properties. The
```

> `update_at` property is the last order update timestamp. To create a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`updated_at` property is the last order update timestamp. To create a
```

> pre-aggregation splitting to partitions, we need to specify the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pre-aggregation with partitions, we need to specify the
```

[`partitionGranularity` property](https://cube.dev/docs/schema/reference/pre-aggregations#partition-granularity).
Partitions will be split monthly by the `created_at` dimension.

```javascript
preAggregations: {
    orders: {
      type: `rollup`,
      external: true,
      dimensions: [CUBE.number, CUBE.status, CUBE.createdAt, CUBE.updatedAt],
      timeDimension: CUBE.createdAt,
      granularity: `day`,

>       partitionGranularity: `month`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      partitionGranularity: `month`, // this is where we specify the partition
```

Reviewer 2: This is just an idea I have to let the user know exactly where in the code the partition is defined. If you have a better idea of how to write this, I'm open for suggestions. :smile:

Author: Makes sense! I like it ☺️

      refreshKey: {

>         sql: `SELECT max(updated_at) FROM public.orders`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        sql: `SELECT max(updated_at) FROM public.orders` // check for updates of the updated_at property
```

Reviewer 2: Another suggestion, I just want the user to know exactly what this `sql` statement does. Open for suggestions on how to improve the wording. :smile:

      },
    },
  },
```

> As you can see, we defined custom

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see, we defined custom a
```

[`refreshKey`](https://cube.dev/docs/schema/reference/pre-aggregations#parameters-refresh-key-sql)

> that will check a new value of the `updated_at` property. The refresh key is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that will check for new values of the `updated_at` property. The refresh key is
```

> evaluated for each partition separately. For example, if we will update order

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
evaluated for each partition separately. For example, if we update orders
```

> from august and update their `update_at` property, the current refresh key will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from august and update their `updated_at` property, the current refresh key will
```

update **for all partitions**. There is how it looks in the Cube logs:

```bash
Executing SQL: 5b4c517f-b496-4c69-9503-f8cd2b4c73b6
--
  SELECT max(updated_at) FROM public.orders
--
Performing query completed: 5b4c517f-b496-4c69-9503-f8cd2b4c73b6 (15ms)
Performing query: 5b4c517f-b496-4c69-9503-f8cd2b4c73b6
Performing query: 5b4c517f-b496-4c69-9503-f8cd2b4c73b6
Executing SQL: 5b4c517f-b496-4c69-9503-f8cd2b4c73b6
--
  select min(("orders".created_at::timestamptz AT TIME ZONE 'UTC')) from public.orders AS "orders"
--
Executing SQL: 5b4c517f-b496-4c69-9503-f8cd2b4c73b6
--
  select max(("orders".created_at::timestamptz AT TIME ZONE 'UTC')) from public.orders AS "orders"
--
```

Note that the query for two partitions is the same. It's the reason why **all

> partitions** will be update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
partitions** will be updated.
```

> Well, how to fix this and update only august partition? We can use the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How do we fix this and update only the partition for august? We can use the
```

Reviewer: We probably also want a capital 'A' for August.

Author: @rpaik exactly! Thank you!

[`FITER_PARAMS`](https://cube.dev/docs/schema/reference/cube#filter-params) for
that!

Let's update our pre-aggregation definition:

```javascript
preAggregations: {
    orders: {
      type: `rollup`,
      external: true,
      dimensions: [CUBE.number, CUBE.status, CUBE.createdAt, CUBE.updatedAt],
      timeDimension: CUBE.createdAt,
      granularity: `day`,
      partitionGranularity: `month`,
      refreshKey: {
        sql: `SELECT max(updated_at) FROM public.orders WHERE ${FILTER_PARAMS.Orders.createdAt.filter('created_at')}`
      },
    },
  },
```

> Cube will filter data by `created_at` property and apply the refresh key for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cube will filter data by the `created_at` property and then apply the refresh key for the `updated_at` property.
```

Reviewer 2: @rchkv is this okay?

Author: Yeah. it's good!

> There is how it looks in the Cube logs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's how it looks in the Cube logs:
```

```bash
Executing SQL: e1155b2f-859b-4e61-a760-17af891f5f0b
--
  select min(("updated_orders".created_at::timestamptz AT TIME ZONE 'UTC')) from public.orders AS "updated_orders"
--
Executing SQL: e1155b2f-859b-4e61-a760-17af891f5f0b
--
  select max(("updated_orders".created_at::timestamptz AT TIME ZONE 'UTC')) from public.orders AS "updated_orders"
--
Performing query completed: e1155b2f-859b-4e61-a760-17af891f5f0b (10ms)
Performing query completed: e1155b2f-859b-4e61-a760-17af891f5f0b (13ms)
Performing query: e1155b2f-859b-4e61-a760-17af891f5f0b
Performing query: e1155b2f-859b-4e61-a760-17af891f5f0b
Executing SQL: e1155b2f-859b-4e61-a760-17af891f5f0b
--
  SELECT max(updated_at) FROM public.orders WHERE created_at >= '2021-08-01T00:00:00.000Z'::timestamptz AND created_at <= '2021-08-31T23:59:59.999Z'::timestamptz
--
Executing SQL: e1155b2f-859b-4e61-a760-17af891f5f0b
--
  SELECT max(updated_at) FROM public.orders WHERE created_at >= '2021-09-01T00:00:00.000Z'::timestamptz AND created_at <= '2021-09-30T23:59:59.999Z'::timestamptz
```

> Note that Cube checks the refresh key value using date range over the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that Cube checks the refresh key value using a date range over the
```

> `created_at` property. With this refresh key only one partition will be update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`created_at` property. With this refresh key, only one partition will be updated.
```

## Result

> We have received orders from two partitions of pre-aggregation and only one of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have received orders from two partitions of a pre-aggregation and only one of
```

> them is been updated when order changed their status:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
them has been updated when an order changed its status:
```
